\." manpage for sdc

.\" name catg date version title
.TH sdc 1 "Jan 2022" "0.3.0" "sdc manpage"

.SH NAME
sdc \- SD language compiler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdc
<file...> -o <file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.P
.B sdc
is the default plain-text to bytecode compiler for the SD language.
It generates SD
.B bytecode
in the form of a
.B .sdo
(SD Object) file. Bytecode files are purely binary and not meant to be human-readable, however
the documentation at https://matthmr.github.io/docs.sd provides an assembly-like
view of .sdo.

.P
Bytecode files are ran seperately to but cuncurrent from the main memory stack,
creating one of its own by
.B atomic
functions defined in source code and executeded via an interpreter, the default being
.B sdread.
Also, .sdo files can be either
.I executable
or
.I linkable.
Because SD is a scripting language, there is no need for an
.B entry point
and as such .sdo files can be used merely for compressed storage and/or functionality
(such as a database, cache or module).

.P
If '-o' is not passed, the binary will be dumped to
.B out.sdo.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-
stream <file> from
.B STDIN
(pipe).

.TP
.B \-h
displays a help message, then exits.

.TP
.B \-v
displays the current version, then exits.

.SH EXPRESSIONS
.P
Expressions are optional to pass in
.B sdread.
However if passed they have to comply with standard SD language syntax.

.P
They are evaluated and executed right after the file is fully loaded into memory.
They inherit all variables and imports made by the file, and the expression is put into the end of the root of the file.
For this reason, the writer of the main file can take the fact that the file is going to be read by sdread and
.I async
variables for insertion via sdread.

Expressions may not exceed one argument long. It is recomended to either wrap the expression in quotes or
.I xargs
the output of a file into the expression.

.SH NOTES
.IP \[bu]
By default, optionless <file> is of type "
.B source
", aka plain-text human-readable SD source code.

.IP \[bu]
Expressions cannot be set to resolute outside the root which is defined in the file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sdread(1),
.BR sdlang(4)

.SH DEVELOPERS
mH (https://github.com/matthmr)
