.\" manpage for sdread

.\" name catg date version title
.TH sdread 1 "Jan 2022" "0.3.2" "sdread manpage"

.SH NAME
sdread \- SD language interpreter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdread
[-s] <file> "<expr>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.P
.B sdread
is the default plain-text & bytecode interpreter for the SD language.
It wraps around
.B sdparse
which itself wraps arround IST (intermediary SD tree) functionality to JIT-compile native SD source code
and execute it on the fly, and
.B sdbcparse
which directly iterprets the bytecode into objects.

.P
.B sdread
is used inside
.B script.sd
functioning as a package manager as an interpreter for
general configuration and package-wise configuration,
reading from package.sd files, and as a framework
by managing variables set out by scripts / programs / source code
that are script.sd-compliant.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-
stream <file> from
.B STDIN
(pipe).

.TP
.B \-s
parses a
.B bytecode
file. Bytecode files are the non-human-readable binary representation of the structure of an SD script.
They are created by the compiler and often have an
.I .sdo
extension (as in SD Object).

.TP
.B \-h
displays a help message, then exits.

.TP
.B \-v
displays the current version, then exits.

.SH EXPRESSIONS
.P
Expressions are optional to pass in
.B sdread.
However if passed they have to comply with standard SD language syntax.

.P
They are evaluated and executed right after the file is fully loaded into memory.
They inherit all variables and imports made by the file, and the expression is put into the end of the root of the file.
For this reason, the writer of the main file can take the fact that the file is going to be read by sdread and
.I async
variables for insertion via sdread.

Expressions may not exceed one argument long. It is recomended to either wrap the expression in quotes or
.I xargs
the output of a file into the expression.

.SH SHELL AND PIPING
.P
If
.B sdread
is called without any file parameters or pipes, a
.B shell
will be opened which resolute objects in real time.
However if piping to sdread passing file parameters for bytecode, it will operate the same way
as piping using "-"

.SH NOTES
.IP \[bu]
By default, optionless <file> is of type "
.B source
", aka plain-text human-readable SD source code.

.IP \[bu]
Expressions cannot be set to resolute outside the root which is defined in the file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sdc(1),
.BR sdlang(4)

.SH DEVELOPERS
mH (https://github.com/matthmr)
